# 506. Relative Ranks
---
Date Completed: 8/5/2024
Time Complexity: O(log n)
Memory Complexity: O(n)

### Intuition
After learning the alternative solution of using Hashmaps for a O(n) memory complexity and time complexity for problem #1 (TwoSum), I realized that the best course of action for #506 would be using a `HashMap<Integer, Integer>` to map the index for the unsorted array's values. At this point in time, I'm still quite rusty in terms of implementing hashmaps so the majority of this solution was based on the editorial #1 provided by LeetCode. 

### Pseudocode
```pseudocode
begin findRelativeRanks(int[] score) 
    int n = length of score parameter
    int[] copy = new array with length of score
    String[] ranks = new array with length of score 
    Copy score parameter to copied array 

    HashMap<Integer, Integer> scoreToIndex = new HashMap<Integer, Integer>();
    loop i from 0 to n 
        put i into scoretoIndex, referenced to as copy[i] 
    end loop 

    Sort copied array 

    loop i from 0 to n 
        if (i == 0) then
            ranks[get the key of n - i - 1] = "Gold Medal"
        else if (i == 1) then 
            ranks[get the key of n - i - 1] = "Silver Medal"
        else if (i == 2) then 
            ranks[get the key of n - i - 1] = "Bronze Medal"
        else 
            ranks[get the key of n - i - 1] = i + 1
        end if
    end loop 

    return ranks
end findRelativeRanks
```

### Step-by-step Explanation
First the array length `n`, `copy` array and `ranks` needs to be initalized. The `ranks` array will be the array that's to be returned. Next, the `score` array needs to be copied to `copy`. This is because this will act as the sorted array. Next a hashmap `scoretoIndex` needs to be initialized with an Integer key and value. A loop needs to be created which loop until `n` which copies the current value of `i` into the hashmap with the key being the value of `copy[i]` to represent the score. `copy` is now sorted with `Array.sort` for a time-efficient sort. Now a second loop with `i` is created until `n` and if `i == 0`, which represents if the current value of `i` for the hashmap, should have the ranks value be applied as the key which then assigns the rank as "Gold Medal" and so on.

### Closing Notes
Through this, I'd need to improve more on the implementation of Hashmaps and looping through a hashmap. Sorting arrays through `Arrays.sort()` is a godsend and should be used more in future questions that don't really need a special type of sort like some graph theory questions and simple hashmap/array hybrid questions.

